# GeOMA
Geological Ore Mapping Algorithm


# Mathematical model
Drawing a probability map is equivalent to estimating at the $i,j$ grid point the probability of finding the target mineral, conditional on a given distribution of generating rocks of type $G$ and $S$. This can be expressed as:

$P_{i,j}(C| G \cup S)$    (Eq.1),

where $G \equiv g_1 \cup g_2 ... \cup g_n$  and $S \equiv s_1 \cup s_2 ... \cup s_n$ are in turn the union of several polygons in the geological map.

Accounting for the influence of regional rock distribution is both computationally challenging and impractical, considering that only rocks in proximity to the point of interest dominate the geological process. Therefore, Eq. 1 is solved using two approximations.

With the **nearest probability**, we just consider the influence of the rock formations of both types that are the nearest to the point of interest [Bonham-Carter, 1994, Fig. 6-8A](https://www.sciencedirect.com/book/monograph/9780080418674/geographic-information-systems-for-geoscientists):
  $P_{i,j}(C| G \cup S) \sim P_{i,j}(C| g_{near} \cup s_{near}$
  
The pros are:
- simple implementation in shapely
- fast and scalable computation
- conservative approach
The cons are:
- it does not consider the influence of multiple rock formations
- it may underestimate resource probability

The **cumulative probability** approach considers the total probability as a superposition of the probability maps generated by each individual pair of polygons. By assuming each pair of polygons to induce geological processes that are statistically independent from each other, the superposition can be carried out as:
 $P_{i,j}(C| G \cup S) \sim 1- \prod (1-P_{i,j}(C| G \times S))$,
where $\times$ indicates the Cartesian product between polygon pairs. The formula can be either interpreted as the complementary probability of the joint probability of C NOT occurring, or as a  For instance, if there are 100 polygons of type G and 100 of type S, the total probability maps that are superposed are 10,000, a substantial increase in computational time compared to the nearest probability approach.

The pros are:
- it considers the influence of multiple rock formations
- it may reveal high probability regions where multiple rock pairs are present

The cons are:
- requires a dedicated function
- slow computation
- it may overestimate resource probability if the assumption of geological independence of individual pairs fails
